# XYZ School - My Laravel 5 Playground

A simple students and courses enrollment system (not for real-world use) built on top of Laravel 5.6.

## What Is This?

* My playground to test-drive my knowledge against Laravel 5.
* My example code for any potential employers to review.
* Currently this project covers the following aspects of Laravel 5:
  * Blade templates
  * Routing
  * Resource controllers
  * Form validation and custom validation rules & messages
  * Pagination related features
  * Database Migrations
  * Eloquent models: Record listing/creation/updating/deletion, soft deletion and relationships
  * Seeding & Eloquent model factories
  * PHPUnit tests.
  * Etc.

## What Isn't This?

If you can find any good qualities in terms of the abilities and skills mentioned below out from this project, I'll be much appreciated. However, in general, this project is:

* __NOT__ a showcase of my requirement gathering and analysis abilities.
* __NOT__ a showcase of my software system design abilities.
* __NOT__ a showcase of my front-end development skills.
* __NOT__ a showcase of my UI design abilities.

## Assumptions

1. First thing first, surely, this project will never meet the requirements of real-world scenarios at many aspects, otherwise I'll be running my own school now. :) Let's say any missing functionality, inconsideration and workflow flaws in this project are by design or merely quick workarounds, unless they are bugs. My focus is only on if a feature is doable or not and how to implement it in Laravel.
1. The term 'course' here is meant to be a 'unit' or a 'subject' at universities, but not a 'course' for something like Bachelor of Computer Science.
1. The Students section and the Courses section have nearly identical requirements functionality-wise, hence most of the features for the record listing and management are only implemented to the Courses section.
1. Soft deletion is implemented to the Course model in the intention to prevent accidental deletion and make sure history data are kept.
1. Only an active student can enroll in an active course. A student cannot enroll in the same course for the same semester.
1. Out of range 'status' numbers are intentionally generated by model factories
1. If in any doubt, please see the Assumption No. 1 above.

## Demo

__URL:__ https://demos.egghdz.org/xyz-college  
__Username:__ tester  
__Password:__ tester

__Notes:__

* The database will be refreshed every hour, so please don't waste your time try to spam or vandalise it.
* There is a known issue with `StudentsCoursesFactory` due to the foreign key constraints of its corresponding database table. If there is a (very) slight chance that you see no or only few records on the *Students & Courses Enrollment* page, please try the demo an hour later. Otherwise, please contact me directly so that I can try to manually refresh the database.

## Special Thanks

Many thanks to:

* Anyone who is willing to spare his/her precious time to review this project and/or point out its issues.
* My wife who allows me to spend so much of my leisure time on this useless (to her) but fun (to me) 'project'.